<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Acknowledgments</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/Elsevier_eBook.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-acknowledgments" epub:type="acknowledgments" id="a0001">
<div id="CN"></div>
<div id="page_xiii" aria-label="Page xiii" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak">Page xiii</div>
<h1 class="fmtitle" id="ACK001tit">Acknowledgments</h1>
<p id="P0010" class="textfl">I am very grateful to many who have contributed to <i>Investment Banks, Hedge Funds, and Private Equity</i>. My wife Janet and my children (Paul, Lauren, Audrey, Julia, and Peter) have been very patient and supportive during the more than two-year process of researching and writing this book. When I decided to become an academic, they assumed that my investment banker workweek would drop from 70&#160;+ hours to less than half that amount. This has not been the case, as I learned that academics work long hours too, and the book added many hours to my schedule. My oldest son, Paul, is a banker, derivatives structurer, and former convertibles trader, and I relied on and appreciated his wisdom in thinking through the organization of the book and benefited from his many technical suggestions. I wish to thank Xiaowei Zhang, who worked on my team at J.P. Morgan, for her very diligent and efficient contributions as my principal assistant during the editing and model-producing stage of this project. I was very fortunate to be able to rely on her many talents during an interlude in her investment banking career.</p>
<p id="P0015" class="text">I am also grateful to many finance department colleagues and administrators at Northwestern University&#8217;s Kellogg School of Management for their support for this project and for me over the past five years as I transitioned from practitioner to academic. They have been very patient and encouraging during this process. Special thanks to Kathleen Haggerty for her assistance from the Office of the Dean and to senior finance department faculty members Robert Korajczyk, Robert McDonald, and Mitchell Petersen for providing valuable suggestions regarding the content of the book.</p>
<p id="P0020" class="text">I am indebted to the following colleagues and friends from investment banks that provided excellent input to selected chapters:</p>
<div>
<ul>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0010">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0025"/>John Gilbertson, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0015">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0030"/>Mark Goldstein, Managing Director, Deutsche Bank</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0020">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0035"/>David Topper, Managing Director, J.P. Morgan</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0025">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0040"/>Jeffrey Vergamini, Executive Director, Morgan Stanley</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0030">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0045"/>Jeffrey Zajkowski, Managing Director, J.P. Morgan</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0035">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0050"/>Xiaoyin Zhang, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs</li> 
</ul>
</div>
<p id="P0055" class="text">The following professionals provided greatly appreciated input regarding hedge funds and private equity firms, as well as suggestions regarding legal, regulatory, and tax topics in the book:</p>
<div>
<ul>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0040">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0060"/>Bryan Bloom, Principal, W.R. Huff Asset Management Co.</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0045">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0065"/>Deirdre Connell, Partner, Jenner &#38; Block</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0050">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0070"/><span id="page_xiv" aria-label="Page xiv" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak">Page xiv</span>Tom Formolo, Partner, Code Hennessy &#38; Simmons</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0055">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0075"/>Margaret Gibson, Partner, Kirkland &#38; Ellis</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0060">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0080"/>Jason Krejci, Vice President, Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0065">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0085"/>Anna Pinedo, Partner, Morrison &#38; Foerster</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0070">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0090"/>Jim Neary, Managing Director, Warburg Pincus</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0075">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0095"/>Joel Press, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0080">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0100"/>James Rickards, Senior Managing Director, Omnis</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0085">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0105"/>Chirag Saraiya, Principal, Training the Street</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0090">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0110"/>Phillip Torres, Portfolio Manager, ForeSix Asset Management</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0095">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0115"/>Catherine Vaughn, Managing Director, Highbridge Capital Management</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0100">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0120"/>Julie Winkler, Managing Director, CME Group</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="U0105">&#8226;&#160;<a id="P0125"/>Elaine Wolff, Partner, Jenner &#38; Block</li>
</ul></div>
<p id="P0130" class="text">I express appreciation to Kellogg Ph.D. candidates Fritz Burkhardt and Jonathan Brogaard and Northwestern undergraduate research assistants Esther Lee, Tom Hughes, Anya Hayden, and Ashley Heyer for their earlier work on the book. For the second edition of the book, I received excellent assistance from Kellogg Ph.D. candidate Andreas Neuhierl and Northwestern undergraduate research assistants Stephanie Weinstein and Radu Cret. Finally, I appreciate the patience and guidance extended to me by my contacts at Elsevier, especially Scott Bentley, Executive Editor, and Kathleen Paoni, Editorial Project Manager.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
