<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="EN" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Appendix A: An Algorithm for Discovery</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/Elsevier_eBook.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section role="doc-appendix" epub:type="appendix" id="a0001">
<div id="CN"/>
<div id="page_19" aria-label="Page 19" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak">Page 19</div>
<h1 id="ti0010" epub:type="title" class="fmtitle">Appendix A: An Algorithm for Discovery</h1>
<p id="p0010" class="textfl">This is an editorial written by David Paydarfar and William J. Schwartz for the April 2001 issue of Science Magazine (No. 5514). It is reprinted here with permission from the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The editorial reflects many of the principles set forth in this book.</p>
<p id="p0015" class="text"><i>As academic physicians, we are experiencing the rush to restructure medical services and have participated in the development of algorithms for the evaluation and treatment of patients. It has been argued that such algorithms are a critical tool for evidence-based medicine, for improving patient management, and for raising the community standard of clinical care.</i></p>
<p id="p0020" class="text"><i>One day, during a particularly lengthy commute in our carpool, we began to wonder whether the process of creating new knowledge&#x2014;asking the right question, pursuing the unknown, making discoveries&#x2014;might also benefit from such an algorithmic approach. Surely a formula for boosting the rate and magnitude of discoveries would be most welcome. Of course, there are many great treatises on discovery in science, but we were thinking of something more compact for everyday use on a laminated card. Many carpools later, we unexpectedly discovered that its properties could be reduced to five simple principles.</i></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
